log.md, before:

# 👨‍💻 100 Days Of Code - 🪵 Log

## 🗓️ Day 0: January 08, 2023

### **🥵 Today's Progress**
[It's Official!](https://twitter.com/TheRealOkanisis/status/1612255528268500992?s=20&t=7EvKmq8wo7KvtcGGKNUY9A)

### **😶‍🌫 Thoughts:**
Focusing on Alchemy University JavaScript and Ethereum Bootcamp. Working towards Avalanche!

***

## 🗓️ Day 1: January 09, 2023

### **🥵 Today's Progress**
Have made prior progress in Alchemy University JavaScript's **The Basics**. Today was a little different though as I ran into something a little more advanced.

Topics covered included: `this`, `bind` (`implicit binding` with `call-site`), and **Unbound** (aka, fixing the context of functions using: `closure`, `binding functions` and `arrow syntax`).

It's essentially about how an `obj` is referenced using `this` `globally` vs `locally`as they are inside and outside of `functions()`. Note to self `arrow syntax` is really nice and this topic is something to really dig into and come back to until it is clearly understood. 

How `this` is [explained at w3](https://www.w3schools.com/js/js_this.asp) is great with `bind`, `call`, and `apply` examples.

The way it was presented in AU was not very intro friendly imo so spent many hours reading the MDNS docs and asking ChatGPT to learn those references then create small challenges for me. ChatGPT was also helpful by breaking down some of the technical descriptions with real world examples and in simple terms to help absorb the material.

Explored other possible decentralized web3 hosting solutions. These include IPFS which has some limitations (ie, gateways going down that are not pinned, or the pinned service going down itself!) and then found [fleek.xyz](https://fleek.xyz) which is built on the fleek network. Then there is [Portrait.gg](https://join.portrait.gg) built on top of arweave but is in closed beta atm.

The idea of hosting the entire codebase of your dApp on-chain and in true web3-style is exciting!

### **😶‍🌫 Thoughts**
Ethereum Bootcamp is already underway and that class is around the week 6 mark. I don't know how I feel about being rushed but trying to understand this intro material as best as possible.

The pace up to today was very nice but the content covered was a little more than expected and disrupted the pace more than I was comfortable with. Normally I would of struggled and spent countless hours on Google but ChatGPT was there and available to discuss the topics I was covering in specific and detail at a level that I could understand.

I do have some background experience using javascript, sql, python, bash/zsh from my GIS days which is no-doubt helping.

Continue to take notes in Joplin and sync them securely to storj.io!

Continue with the advanced tracks at LearnWeb3DAO!

For further practice, help out at the JavaScript Basics discord threads in the AU Discord.

Checkout codewars for additional practice and challenges.

### **🗒️ Side-note**
[ava-labs/subnet-cli v0.0.4](https://github.com/ava-labs/subnet-cli/releases/tag/v0.0.4) was released today! Nothing exciting but glad to see progress made on Avalanche as one day will deploy my projects over der.

### **🔗 Links**
👨‍🏫 [Attempt to troubleshoot basic JavaScript error for student in AU Discord](https://discord.com/channels/1039895401832128532/1045032183968038932/1062119273146880040)

***

## 🗓️ Day 2: January 10, 2023

### **🥵 Today's Progress**
It was back to Alchemy University and JavaScript Basics! After wrapping my head around (kind of..) `this` keyword and `bind` etc I tackled Prototypes and Chains today and linking them with `Object.create` for example.

They reminded me of building functions in `zsh` or `sh` which can take flags or options where Prototypes in JavaScript allow you to chain objects together with functions and add additional functionality to the core tool - like a library in python. It was definitely an easier ride to learn these than yesterday!

Then it was on to `classes` and `constructors` which are a new interface to working with `prototypes`. Key concepts included creating new `instances` from `objects`, learning about `subclasses` using `extend` and the `super` method! 

I took up the offer of some light bathroom reading in the course and enjoyed then learning about the differences in Binary, Decimal and Hexadecimal types and how they are handled. Can't wait to start playing with these somemore as they seem to be a core concept in Computer Science - which reminds me...

### **😶‍🌫 Thoughts:**
Touched base with instructor for the Ethereum Bootcamp on Discord and got reassured that it is self paced and ready to tackle anytime I'm ready! Looking forward to this program as I've got lots of great ideas for potential web3 projects.

### **🗒️ Side-note**
Keep an eye out for decentralized full web3 stack storage, hosting and development platforms and the advent of web3 social media this year!

Do I wanna take that [3-month online Introduction to Computer Science Course from Harvard](https://pll.harvard.edu/course/cs50-introduction-computer-science)?

### **🔗 Links**
Say hello to the [#100DaysOfWeb3](https://blog.developerdao.com/the-100daysofweb3-challenge) challenge!

[Radicle.xyz](https://radicle.xyz) looks great for hosting your own github projects in a decentralized manner while [GitCoin](https://gitcoin.co/) appears to be a place to submit applications for grants or connect with the community to network and develop my skills even further!

***

## 🗓️ Day 3: January 11, 2023

### **🥵 Today's Progress**
Continued with JavaScript basics from Alchemy University and completed Chapter 1!!! Yes! BUT... these new advanced topics are really just that - advanced and I need to take some time to consider some other intro courses for specific topics I'm having trouble grasping, utilize discord for support and other means.

I moved into Chapter 2 which is **Array Manipulation** and actually having a lot of fun. It's nice to apply previous learnings to the challenges at the end of each lesson.

Arrays have a lot of built in functions to help: `.sort()`, `.map()`, `.filter()`, and `.reduce()` notably. The logic was fairly straight forward, though I am having trouble applying `constructor()` efficiently and wanna master these with `prototypes`.

### **😶‍🌫 Thoughts:**
I think I gotta find some other beginner friendly tutorials for JavaScript - which I've listed below in Links. Alchemy University starts off nice, then it throws you in head first! I spend more time researching and teaching myself than I do reading their lesson plans. I feel at the later stages, they provide keywords and not enough instruction. I take those keywords and hit up ChatGPT (for some very interesting conversations), stackoverflow and google.

I've never worked this in-depth with JavaScript as in the past it's been a lot of click-ready-deploy type JavaScript sites that used leaflet, openlayers and other webmapping libraries. My new knowledge in JavaScript is actually making a lot of that code more readable than ever!

I'm afraid of [chimp-syndrome](https://pigeon.psy.tufts.edu/psych26/kohler.htm) though as I follow google-structions and will be wary of it. ChatGPT can be really off-base as well but that's a bonus as it helps me catch mistakes and is a great positive reinforcement learning mechanism!

### **🗒️ Side-note**
[avalanchego v1.9.6 released!](https://github.com/ava-labs/avalanchego/releases/tag/v1.9.6) - I've got my eye on Avalanche 🔺! Will be spinning up [an avalanche node tomorrow](https://docs.avax.network/nodes/build/run-avalanche-node-manually)!

### **🔗 Links**

👨‍🏫 [Assisting Alchemy University student in understanding JavaScript constructors()](https://discord.com/channels/1039895401832128532/1040231036262559795/1062802859890069565)

**Resources:**
 - [The Ultimate Smart Contract Developer Roadmap](https://oliverjumpertz.com/the-ultimate-smart-contract-developer-roadmap/)
 - [FreeWeb3Resources](https://freeweb3resources.com)
 - [Ethernaut](https://ethernaut.openzeppelin.com/)
 - [Roadmap.sh - Blockchain Developer](https://ethernaut.openzeppelin.com/)
 - [Alchemy University](https://university.alchemy.com/)
 - [StackUp](https://app.stackup.dev/)
 - [LearnWeb3.io](https://learnweb3.io/)
 - [JavaScript - First Steps](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/First_steps)
 - [Egghead.io - Solidity](https://egghead.io/q/react-and-solidity?access_state=pro)
 - [Cookbook.dev](https://www.cookbook.dev/)
 - [TheOdinProject](https://www.theodinproject.com/)
 - [TotalTypescript.com](https://www.totaltypescript.com/)
 - [Smart Contract Analysis](https://consensys.github.io/smart-contract-best-practices/security-tools/static-and-dynamic-analysis/)
 - [FreeCodeCamp - Solidity](https://consensys.github.io/smart-contract-best-practices/security-tools/static-and-dynamic-analysis/)
 - [BuidlGuidl](https://buidlguidl.com/)
 - [SpeedRunEthereum](https://speedrunethereum.com/)
 - [Scaffold-Eth](https://github.com/scaffold-eth/scaffold-eth)
 - [Codeberg](https://codeberg.org/)
 - [OpenZeppelin - Developing Smart Contracts](https://docs.openzeppelin.com/learn/developing-smart-contracts)
 - [CodeCademy - Front-End Engineer](https://www.codecademy.com/learn/paths/front-end-engineer-career-path)
 - [Macro - Teach Yourself Web3](https://www.teachyourselfweb3.com/courses/teach-yourself-web3)
 - [CodeWars](https://www.codewars.com/)
 - [Apollo Academy and Platform](https://learn.apollo.academy/)

**General References:**
 - [Solidity Docs](https://docs.soliditylang.org/)
 - [TypeScript Docs](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/)
 - [JavaScript Docs](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference)
 
 ***

 ## 🗓️ Day 4: January 12, 2023

### **🥵 Today's Progress**
Finished Alchemy University's: Data Structures > Array Manipulation. It was a really fun module and surpirsed that most of my solutions (which worked really well btw) were not similar to theirs but I checked what their answers were and my approaches were simply reducing lines of code into one.

With that out of the way, it was time to take a breather from coding! I want an avalanche node! I found an old 2TB harddrive in my pile and decided to put that into an old laptop that had an extra bay - perfect!

Deploying the node was very easy with [pre-built binaries for avalanchego](https://github.com/ava-labs/avalanchego/releases) and the [configuration of the avalanche node](https://docs.avax.network/nodes/build/run-avalanche-node-manually) was very straight forward - even have TLS to boot!

I also setup [monitoring with grafana and prometheus and using Postman as RPC and localhost:3000 as grafana front-end](https://docs.avax.network/nodes/maintain/setting-up-node-monitoring)!

Sync'ing as we speak and I'm building a full index'd node. Says to expect finish sync'ing in 6 days!

### **😶‍🌫 Thoughts:**
I think I'm going to tackle the second track in [learnweb3.io](https://learnweb3.io/) which is the Sophomore track and will take me through making a Uniswap like dApp! For tomorrow, going to start tonight!

### **🗒️ Side-note**
I have great ideas for my first project and have been fleshing it out. Will share more once I get to that point.

### **🔗 Links**
Professional Networking:
 - [Eden - by Developer_DAO](https://www.joineden.xyz/)
 - [Metaintro, coming soon](https://twitter.com/metaintro)
 - [Talent Protocol](https://beta.talentprotocol.com/join/okanisis)

 ***

 ## 🗓️ Day 5: January 13, 2023

### **🥵 Today's Progress**
There was a slight change of plans today. I intended to work on the second track at learnweb3.io but instead tackled my avalanche node! Why did it need some work? Cause the dang thing was gonna take 10000hrs to sync a full archived node.

I hit up [Avalanche Discord](https://chat.avalabs.org) and got some help with the recommendation being consider your specs! I might need faster storage for example, as I got an old 2TB HDD syncing the archive node at the moment but then have a laptop running another node that will make a `state sync` node which is essentially a node without the history in it. Not ideal but good enough to get an active node so issue RPC calls against!

At this point, I have two laptops sync'ing avalanche mainnet:
 - one an archive node (sync while i use the sync state node)
 - one a sync state node (for immediate use)

![my avalanche babies](https://i.imgur.com/TX0rUZx.png)

These laptops have prometheus, grafana and postman. Grafana lets me visual the node metrics with, you guessed it, graphs and Postman has templates to interact with an avalanche node - this makes issuing RPC calls a breeze.

![prometheus](https://imgur.com/0PLqQtH.png)

![grafana](https://imgur.com/YOVZZBe.png)

![postman](https://imgur.com/jO61Fzf.png)

I was donated an old gaming tower that I can retrofit (after A LOT of tlc) with a SSD once I get my hands on one - 4TB would be ideal.

![coming back stronger](https://i.imgur.com/5YKyiT7.png)

I also [applied to portrait.gg](https://beta.portrait.gg/join) [on twitter](https://twitter.com/TheRealOkanisis/status/1614042757018046465?s=20&t=6xwo5ChQ1nxVhWSOpOo5sA) where it's a on-chain hosting solution which I want to explore and likely try deploying my projects on it (front-ends).

### **😶‍🌫 Thoughts:**
**To-Do:**
 - get back to smart contract coding tomorrow with LearnWeb3.io!
 - fire up an ursa node for fleek.xyz
 - setup a reverse proxy using NGINX for nodes and any WAN facing services I deploy in the future

### **🗒️ Side-note**
Invest in some SSD to insert into your new/old tower that was donated!

My pile of junk might not cut it:
![old hard drives](https://i.imgur.com/CO3tlbN.png)

### **🔗 Links**
**Today's References:**
 - [Run Avalanche Node Manually](https://docs.avax.network/nodes/build/run-avalanche-node-manually)
 - [Monitor An Avalanche Node](https://docs.avax.network/nodes/maintain/setting-up-node-monitoring)
 - [Avalanchego APIs](https://docs.avax.network/apis/avalanchego/apis)
 - [Postman Collection](https://docs.avax.network/apis/avalanchego/postman-avalanche-collection)
 - [Archlinux Installation Guide](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Installation_guide)

 ***

 ## 🗓️ Day 6: January 14, 2023

### **🥵 Today's Progress**
Whoa! So today I deployed a website on fleek finally.

![live on fleek](https://imgur.com/xlt41ps.png)

It was so easy and I had a small hiccup trying to setup the dns records for a custom google domain I have for testing but after reading the fine print I finally got it all to work and it loads up at [indigenis.ca](https://indigenis.ca)

This is going to be a place holder for a web3 portfolio which led me to find a [web3 portfolio template on github](https://github.com/pointer-gg/web3-portfolio-site) which in turn led me to a new web3 education site - everyone meet: [Pointer](https://pointer.gg)

My avalanche node also finally finished syncing! It's the sync state one I mentioned yesterday and it's reporting `healthy` and processed by first 2 blocks for p-chain!

![healthy report from postman](https://imgur.com/gLlhmnB.png)

My first p-chain blocks:

![first p-chain blocks](https://imgur.com/p0Za23X.png)

### **😶‍🌫 Thoughts:**
Consider using a [static site generator like Hugo or Jekyll](https://docs.ipfs.tech/how-to/websites-on-ipfs/static-site-generators/) - I went through the basic tutorials for them and they are really fun and easy. [Jekyll Tutorial](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/step-by-step/01-setup/) and [Hugo Tutorial](https://gohugo.io/getting-started/quick-start/)

### **🗒️ Side-note**
Consider setting up a redirect for my [unstoppabledomains](https://unstoppabledomains.com/?ref=b890a8db99b546b) and [.ens](https://app.ens.domains/) domain to my new fleek portfolio site. Wait for gas fees to come down so can sign transaction for my ENS .eth domain!

### **🔗 Links**
**Setting Up Fleek with a Custom Domain Name and Github:**
 - [IPFS - Introducing Fleek and Domain Names](https://docs.ipfs.tech/how-to/websites-on-ipfs/introducing-fleek/#domain-names)
 - [Domain Management In Fleek](https://docs.fleek.co/domain-management/overview/)
 - [Domain Forwarding in Google Domains](https://support.getshifter.io/en/articles/3080501-domain-forwarding-on-google-domains-zone-apex-naked-domain-to-www-prefixed-domain)
 - [Fleek Custom DNS Domains and Upgrading with Google](https://docs.fleek.co/domain-management/custom-dns-domains/#how-to-upgrade-using-google-domains)
 - [Fleek Domain Management for ENS](https://docs.fleek.co/domain-management/ens-domains/)

 **Learning Resources:**
  - [UseWeb3.xyz](https://www.useweb3.xyz/)
  - [Pointer.gg](https://www.pointer.gg/)

  **Development Tools:**
   - [Stackblitz](https://stackblitz.com/) - check it out, live development for front ends and more!

Commit message:

log.md: github reference in day 6 journal

log.md, after:

# 👨‍💻 100 Days Of Code - 🪵 Log

## 🗓️ Day 0: January 08, 2023

### **🥵 Today's Progress**
[It's Official!](https://twitter.com/TheRealOkanisis/status/1612255528268500992?s=20&t=7EvKmq8wo7KvtcGGKNUY9A)

### **😶‍🌫 Thoughts:**
Focusing on Alchemy University JavaScript and Ethereum Bootcamp. Working towards Avalanche!

***

## 🗓️ Day 1: January 09, 2023

### **🥵 Today's Progress**
Have made prior progress in Alchemy University JavaScript's **The Basics**. Today was a little different though as I ran into something a little more advanced.

Topics covered included: `this`, `bind` (`implicit binding` with `call-site`), and **Unbound** (aka, fixing the context of functions using: `closure`, `binding functions` and `arrow syntax`).

It's essentially about how an `obj` is referenced using `this` `globally` vs `locally`as they are inside and outside of `functions()`. Note to self `arrow syntax` is really nice and this topic is something to really dig into and come back to until it is clearly understood. 

How `this` is [explained at w3](https://www.w3schools.com/js/js_this.asp) is great with `bind`, `call`, and `apply` examples.

The way it was presented in AU was not very intro friendly imo so spent many hours reading the MDNS docs and asking ChatGPT to learn those references then create small challenges for me. ChatGPT was also helpful by breaking down some of the technical descriptions with real world examples and in simple terms to help absorb the material.

Explored other possible decentralized web3 hosting solutions. These include IPFS which has some limitations (ie, gateways going down that are not pinned, or the pinned service going down itself!) and then found [fleek.xyz](https://fleek.xyz) which is built on the fleek network. Then there is [Portrait.gg](https://join.portrait.gg) built on top of arweave but is in closed beta atm.

The idea of hosting the entire codebase of your dApp on-chain and in true web3-style is exciting!

### **😶‍🌫 Thoughts**
Ethereum Bootcamp is already underway and that class is around the week 6 mark. I don't know how I feel about being rushed but trying to understand this intro material as best as possible.

The pace up to today was very nice but the content covered was a little more than expected and disrupted the pace more than I was comfortable with. Normally I would of struggled and spent countless hours on Google but ChatGPT was there and available to discuss the topics I was covering in specific and detail at a level that I could understand.

I do have some background experience using javascript, sql, python, bash/zsh from my GIS days which is no-doubt helping.

Continue to take notes in Joplin and sync them securely to storj.io!

Continue with the advanced tracks at LearnWeb3DAO!

For further practice, help out at the JavaScript Basics discord threads in the AU Discord.

Checkout codewars for additional practice and challenges.

### **🗒️ Side-note**
[ava-labs/subnet-cli v0.0.4](https://github.com/ava-labs/subnet-cli/releases/tag/v0.0.4) was released today! Nothing exciting but glad to see progress made on Avalanche as one day will deploy my projects over der.

### **🔗 Links**
👨‍🏫 [Attempt to troubleshoot basic JavaScript error for student in AU Discord](https://discord.com/channels/1039895401832128532/1045032183968038932/1062119273146880040)

***

## 🗓️ Day 2: January 10, 2023

### **🥵 Today's Progress**
It was back to Alchemy University and JavaScript Basics! After wrapping my head around (kind of..) `this` keyword and `bind` etc I tackled Prototypes and Chains today and linking them with `Object.create` for example.

They reminded me of building functions in `zsh` or `sh` which can take flags or options where Prototypes in JavaScript allow you to chain objects together with functions and add additional functionality to the core tool - like a library in python. It was definitely an easier ride to learn these than yesterday!

Then it was on to `classes` and `constructors` which are a new interface to working with `prototypes`. Key concepts included creating new `instances` from `objects`, learning about `subclasses` using `extend` and the `super` method! 

I took up the offer of some light bathroom reading in the course and enjoyed then learning about the differences in Binary, Decimal and Hexadecimal types and how they are handled. Can't wait to start playing with these somemore as they seem to be a core concept in Computer Science - which reminds me...

### **😶‍🌫 Thoughts:**
Touched base with instructor for the Ethereum Bootcamp on Discord and got reassured that it is self paced and ready to tackle anytime I'm ready! Looking forward to this program as I've got lots of great ideas for potential web3 projects.

### **🗒️ Side-note**
Keep an eye out for decentralized full web3 stack storage, hosting and development platforms and the advent of web3 social media this year!

Do I wanna take that [3-month online Introduction to Computer Science Course from Harvard](https://pll.harvard.edu/course/cs50-introduction-computer-science)?

### **🔗 Links**
Say hello to the [#100DaysOfWeb3](https://blog.developerdao.com/the-100daysofweb3-challenge) challenge!

[Radicle.xyz](https://radicle.xyz) looks great for hosting your own github projects in a decentralized manner while [GitCoin](https://gitcoin.co/) appears to be a place to submit applications for grants or connect with the community to network and develop my skills even further!

***

## 🗓️ Day 3: January 11, 2023

### **🥵 Today's Progress**
Continued with JavaScript basics from Alchemy University and completed Chapter 1!!! Yes! BUT... these new advanced topics are really just that - advanced and I need to take some time to consider some other intro courses for specific topics I'm having trouble grasping, utilize discord for support and other means.

I moved into Chapter 2 which is **Array Manipulation** and actually having a lot of fun. It's nice to apply previous learnings to the challenges at the end of each lesson.

Arrays have a lot of built in functions to help: `.sort()`, `.map()`, `.filter()`, and `.reduce()` notably. The logic was fairly straight forward, though I am having trouble applying `constructor()` efficiently and wanna master these with `prototypes`.

### **😶‍🌫 Thoughts:**
I think I gotta find some other beginner friendly tutorials for JavaScript - which I've listed below in Links. Alchemy University starts off nice, then it throws you in head first! I spend more time researching and teaching myself than I do reading their lesson plans. I feel at the later stages, they provide keywords and not enough instruction. I take those keywords and hit up ChatGPT (for some very interesting conversations), stackoverflow and google.

I've never worked this in-depth with JavaScript as in the past it's been a lot of click-ready-deploy type JavaScript sites that used leaflet, openlayers and other webmapping libraries. My new knowledge in JavaScript is actually making a lot of that code more readable than ever!

I'm afraid of [chimp-syndrome](https://pigeon.psy.tufts.edu/psych26/kohler.htm) though as I follow google-structions and will be wary of it. ChatGPT can be really off-base as well but that's a bonus as it helps me catch mistakes and is a great positive reinforcement learning mechanism!

### **🗒️ Side-note**
[avalanchego v1.9.6 released!](https://github.com/ava-labs/avalanchego/releases/tag/v1.9.6) - I've got my eye on Avalanche 🔺! Will be spinning up [an avalanche node tomorrow](https://docs.avax.network/nodes/build/run-avalanche-node-manually)!

### **🔗 Links**

👨‍🏫 [Assisting Alchemy University student in understanding JavaScript constructors()](https://discord.com/channels/1039895401832128532/1040231036262559795/1062802859890069565)

**Resources:**
 - [The Ultimate Smart Contract Developer Roadmap](https://oliverjumpertz.com/the-ultimate-smart-contract-developer-roadmap/)
 - [FreeWeb3Resources](https://freeweb3resources.com)
 - [Ethernaut](https://ethernaut.openzeppelin.com/)
 - [Roadmap.sh - Blockchain Developer](https://ethernaut.openzeppelin.com/)
 - [Alchemy University](https://university.alchemy.com/)
 - [StackUp](https://app.stackup.dev/)
 - [LearnWeb3.io](https://learnweb3.io/)
 - [JavaScript - First Steps](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/First_steps)
 - [Egghead.io - Solidity](https://egghead.io/q/react-and-solidity?access_state=pro)
 - [Cookbook.dev](https://www.cookbook.dev/)
 - [TheOdinProject](https://www.theodinproject.com/)
 - [TotalTypescript.com](https://www.totaltypescript.com/)
 - [Smart Contract Analysis](https://consensys.github.io/smart-contract-best-practices/security-tools/static-and-dynamic-analysis/)
 - [FreeCodeCamp - Solidity](https://consensys.github.io/smart-contract-best-practices/security-tools/static-and-dynamic-analysis/)
 - [BuidlGuidl](https://buidlguidl.com/)
 - [SpeedRunEthereum](https://speedrunethereum.com/)
 - [Scaffold-Eth](https://github.com/scaffold-eth/scaffold-eth)
 - [Codeberg](https://codeberg.org/)
 - [OpenZeppelin - Developing Smart Contracts](https://docs.openzeppelin.com/learn/developing-smart-contracts)
 - [CodeCademy - Front-End Engineer](https://www.codecademy.com/learn/paths/front-end-engineer-career-path)
 - [Macro - Teach Yourself Web3](https://www.teachyourselfweb3.com/courses/teach-yourself-web3)
 - [CodeWars](https://www.codewars.com/)
 - [Apollo Academy and Platform](https://learn.apollo.academy/)

**General References:**
 - [Solidity Docs](https://docs.soliditylang.org/)
 - [TypeScript Docs](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/)
 - [JavaScript Docs](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference)
 
 ***

 ## 🗓️ Day 4: January 12, 2023

### **🥵 Today's Progress**
Finished Alchemy University's: Data Structures > Array Manipulation. It was a really fun module and surpirsed that most of my solutions (which worked really well btw) were not similar to theirs but I checked what their answers were and my approaches were simply reducing lines of code into one.

With that out of the way, it was time to take a breather from coding! I want an avalanche node! I found an old 2TB harddrive in my pile and decided to put that into an old laptop that had an extra bay - perfect!

Deploying the node was very easy with [pre-built binaries for avalanchego](https://github.com/ava-labs/avalanchego/releases) and the [configuration of the avalanche node](https://docs.avax.network/nodes/build/run-avalanche-node-manually) was very straight forward - even have TLS to boot!

I also setup [monitoring with grafana and prometheus and using Postman as RPC and localhost:3000 as grafana front-end](https://docs.avax.network/nodes/maintain/setting-up-node-monitoring)!

Sync'ing as we speak and I'm building a full index'd node. Says to expect finish sync'ing in 6 days!

### **😶‍🌫 Thoughts:**
I think I'm going to tackle the second track in [learnweb3.io](https://learnweb3.io/) which is the Sophomore track and will take me through making a Uniswap like dApp! For tomorrow, going to start tonight!

### **🗒️ Side-note**
I have great ideas for my first project and have been fleshing it out. Will share more once I get to that point.

### **🔗 Links**
Professional Networking:
 - [Eden - by Developer_DAO](https://www.joineden.xyz/)
 - [Metaintro, coming soon](https://twitter.com/metaintro)
 - [Talent Protocol](https://beta.talentprotocol.com/join/okanisis)

 ***

 ## 🗓️ Day 5: January 13, 2023

### **🥵 Today's Progress**
There was a slight change of plans today. I intended to work on the second track at learnweb3.io but instead tackled my avalanche node! Why did it need some work? Cause the dang thing was gonna take 10000hrs to sync a full archived node.

I hit up [Avalanche Discord](https://chat.avalabs.org) and got some help with the recommendation being consider your specs! I might need faster storage for example, as I got an old 2TB HDD syncing the archive node at the moment but then have a laptop running another node that will make a `state sync` node which is essentially a node without the history in it. Not ideal but good enough to get an active node so issue RPC calls against!

At this point, I have two laptops sync'ing avalanche mainnet:
 - one an archive node (sync while i use the sync state node)
 - one a sync state node (for immediate use)

![my avalanche babies](https://i.imgur.com/TX0rUZx.png)

These laptops have prometheus, grafana and postman. Grafana lets me visual the node metrics with, you guessed it, graphs and Postman has templates to interact with an avalanche node - this makes issuing RPC calls a breeze.

![prometheus](https://imgur.com/0PLqQtH.png)

![grafana](https://imgur.com/YOVZZBe.png)

![postman](https://imgur.com/jO61Fzf.png)

I was donated an old gaming tower that I can retrofit (after A LOT of tlc) with a SSD once I get my hands on one - 4TB would be ideal.

![coming back stronger](https://i.imgur.com/5YKyiT7.png)

I also [applied to portrait.gg](https://beta.portrait.gg/join) [on twitter](https://twitter.com/TheRealOkanisis/status/1614042757018046465?s=20&t=6xwo5ChQ1nxVhWSOpOo5sA) where it's a on-chain hosting solution which I want to explore and likely try deploying my projects on it (front-ends).

### **😶‍🌫 Thoughts:**
**To-Do:**
 - get back to smart contract coding tomorrow with LearnWeb3.io!
 - fire up an ursa node for fleek.xyz
 - setup a reverse proxy using NGINX for nodes and any WAN facing services I deploy in the future

### **🗒️ Side-note**
Invest in some SSD to insert into your new/old tower that was donated!

My pile of junk might not cut it:
![old hard drives](https://i.imgur.com/CO3tlbN.png)

### **🔗 Links**
**Today's References:**
 - [Run Avalanche Node Manually](https://docs.avax.network/nodes/build/run-avalanche-node-manually)
 - [Monitor An Avalanche Node](https://docs.avax.network/nodes/maintain/setting-up-node-monitoring)
 - [Avalanchego APIs](https://docs.avax.network/apis/avalanchego/apis)
 - [Postman Collection](https://docs.avax.network/apis/avalanchego/postman-avalanche-collection)
 - [Archlinux Installation Guide](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Installation_guide)

 ***

 ## 🗓️ Day 6: January 14, 2023

### **🥵 Today's Progress**
Whoa! So today I deployed a website on fleek.xyz finally and it [reads any pushes to a github repo](https://github.com/okanisis/random-planet-facts) for auto re-deployment! Fleek is so easy to use and beautiful.

![live on fleek](https://imgur.com/xlt41ps.png)

It was so easy and I had a small hiccup trying to setup the dns records for a custom google domain I have for testing but after reading the fine print I finally got it all to work and it loads up at [indigenis.ca](https://indigenis.ca)

This is going to be a place holder for a web3 portfolio which led me to find a [web3 portfolio template on github](https://github.com/pointer-gg/web3-portfolio-site) which in turn led me to a new web3 education site - everyone meet: [Pointer](https://pointer.gg)

My avalanche node also finally finished syncing! It's the sync state one I mentioned yesterday and it's reporting `healthy` and processed by first 2 blocks for p-chain!

![healthy report from postman](https://imgur.com/gLlhmnB.png)

My first p-chain blocks:

![first p-chain blocks](https://imgur.com/p0Za23X.png)

### **😶‍🌫 Thoughts:**
Consider using a [static site generator like Hugo or Jekyll](https://docs.ipfs.tech/how-to/websites-on-ipfs/static-site-generators/) - I went through the basic tutorials for them and they are really fun and easy. [Jekyll Tutorial](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/step-by-step/01-setup/) and [Hugo Tutorial](https://gohugo.io/getting-started/quick-start/)

### **🗒️ Side-note**
Consider setting up a redirect for my [unstoppabledomains](https://unstoppabledomains.com/?ref=b890a8db99b546b) and [.ens](https://app.ens.domains/) domain to my new fleek portfolio site. Wait for gas fees to come down so can sign transaction for my ENS .eth domain!

### **🔗 Links**
**Setting Up Fleek with a Custom Domain Name and Github:**
 - [IPFS - Introducing Fleek and Domain Names](https://docs.ipfs.tech/how-to/websites-on-ipfs/introducing-fleek/#domain-names)
 - [Domain Management In Fleek](https://docs.fleek.co/domain-management/overview/)
 - [Domain Forwarding in Google Domains](https://support.getshifter.io/en/articles/3080501-domain-forwarding-on-google-domains-zone-apex-naked-domain-to-www-prefixed-domain)
 - [Fleek Custom DNS Domains and Upgrading with Google](https://docs.fleek.co/domain-management/custom-dns-domains/#how-to-upgrade-using-google-domains)
 - [Fleek Domain Management for ENS](https://docs.fleek.co/domain-management/ens-domains/)

 **Learning Resources:**
  - [UseWeb3.xyz](https://www.useweb3.xyz/)
  - [Pointer.gg](https://www.pointer.gg/)

  **Development Tools:**
   - [Stackblitz](https://stackblitz.com/) - check it out, live development for front ends and more!
