log/015.md, before:

# 👨‍💻 100 Days Of Code - 🪵 Log

## 🗓️ Day 15: January 23, 2023

### **🥵 Today's Progress**

#### 🥳 COMPLETE JUNIOR TRACK AT LEARNWEB3.IO 🥳

#### Ceramic with LearnWeb3.io
[**Ceramic**](https://ceramic.network/) is a decentralized data network. It focuses on decentralizing application databases to make them interoperable across blockchains.

At the core of everything is a **decentralized identity (DID)** dubbed **3ID** named after **3Box Labs**.

This enables a user to link multiple wallets from multiple chains to the single **3ID** which in turn is linked to a **Stream** of data they own identified by a **StreamID** 

Streams have a **genesis state** which following it, users can create **commits** on their **Streams** to apply modifications. The most recent state of the Stream is computed starting from the **genesis** till it gets to the **tip** of the stream.

To build with **Ceramic** a developer utilizes what's called **Self.ID** and it's a high-level SDK that simplifies integrating Ceramic into your project. There is a low-level SDK **Ceramic HTTP Client** for maintaining your own public **node**, **manage** 3IDs and **Stream** data manually.

I have a website now with **Vercel** where you can connect with your wallet using **Ethereum Goerli Testnet** and [generate a **3ID** on **Ceramic Clay Testnet!**](https://lw3-ceramic-tutorial.vercel.app/)

You simply input your name, click **Update** (*wait a long time....*) then it should update the site with something that looks like (*yes, it takes a long time*):

[![](https://imgur.com/Vb4m0u0.png "successful name update on Ceramic Clay Testnet")](https://lw3-ceramic-tutorial.vercel.app/)

Popular sites like [**GitCoin Passport**](https://passport.gitcoin.co) use **Ceramic Network**.

#### Chainlink & GraphQL RandomWinnerGame with LearnWeb3.io

This final project for [**LearnWeb3.io's Junior Track**](https://learnweb3.io/courses) involves creating a game on Polygon's Mumbai Testnet. It's essentially a random winner game. A lottery of sorts. You can start/join a game at the [**RandomWinnerGame Site**](https://lw3-randomwinnergame-tutorial.vercel.app/).

It will call Chainlink VRF to grab a random number and declare a winner for each round. Wager carefully 😉

The front end is where things got really interesting as it involved deploying a subgraph on GraphQL which was new to me so that we could query data from the contract and have it displayed on the website! This is really cool and [the efficiency and power of GraphQL](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZQL7tL2S0oQ) amazed me. This is going to be a protocol I follow closely.

 - [**Play `RandomWinnerGame`**](https://lw3-randomwinnergame-tutorial.vercel.app/)
 - **Contract:** 0x5586e65044a92E9AD93Bf8b383CfA1C6bC1e1Fe6
 - **Network:** Polygon Mumbai Testnet
 - [**Polyscan**](https://mumbai.polygonscan.com/address/0x5586e65044a92E9AD93Bf8b383CfA1C6bC1e1Fe6)

### **😶‍🌫 Thoughts:**
I've been able to cover so much theory and technical understanding of blockchains and how they work that it's making the next steps for designing and planning my web3 projects a step closer to reality!

***

[⏮️](014.md) - [⏭️](016.md)

Commit message:

015.md: added side-note regarding fleek NFA

log/015.md, after:

# 👨‍💻 100 Days Of Code - 🪵 Log

## 🗓️ Day 15: January 23, 2023

### **🥵 Today's Progress**

#### 🥳 COMPLETE JUNIOR TRACK AT LEARNWEB3.IO 🥳

#### Ceramic with LearnWeb3.io
[**Ceramic**](https://ceramic.network/) is a decentralized data network. It focuses on decentralizing application databases to make them interoperable across blockchains.

At the core of everything is a **decentralized identity (DID)** dubbed **3ID** named after **3Box Labs**.

This enables a user to link multiple wallets from multiple chains to the single **3ID** which in turn is linked to a **Stream** of data they own identified by a **StreamID** 

Streams have a **genesis state** which following it, users can create **commits** on their **Streams** to apply modifications. The most recent state of the Stream is computed starting from the **genesis** till it gets to the **tip** of the stream.

To build with **Ceramic** a developer utilizes what's called **Self.ID** and it's a high-level SDK that simplifies integrating Ceramic into your project. There is a low-level SDK **Ceramic HTTP Client** for maintaining your own public **node**, **manage** 3IDs and **Stream** data manually.

I have a website now with **Vercel** where you can connect with your wallet using **Ethereum Goerli Testnet** and [generate a **3ID** on **Ceramic Clay Testnet!**](https://lw3-ceramic-tutorial.vercel.app/)

You simply input your name, click **Update** (*wait a long time....*) then it should update the site with something that looks like (*yes, it takes a long time*):

[![](https://imgur.com/Vb4m0u0.png "successful name update on Ceramic Clay Testnet")](https://lw3-ceramic-tutorial.vercel.app/)

Popular sites like [**GitCoin Passport**](https://passport.gitcoin.co) use **Ceramic Network**.

#### Chainlink & GraphQL RandomWinnerGame with LearnWeb3.io

This final project for [**LearnWeb3.io's Junior Track**](https://learnweb3.io/courses) involves creating a game on Polygon's Mumbai Testnet. It's essentially a random winner game. A lottery of sorts. You can start/join a game at the [**RandomWinnerGame Site**](https://lw3-randomwinnergame-tutorial.vercel.app/).

It will call Chainlink VRF to grab a random number and declare a winner for each round. Wager carefully 😉

The front end is where things got really interesting as it involved deploying a subgraph on GraphQL which was new to me so that we could query data from the contract and have it displayed on the website! This is really cool and [the efficiency and power of GraphQL](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZQL7tL2S0oQ) amazed me. This is going to be a protocol I follow closely.

 - [**Play `RandomWinnerGame`**](https://lw3-randomwinnergame-tutorial.vercel.app/)
 - **Contract:** 0x5586e65044a92E9AD93Bf8b383CfA1C6bC1e1Fe6
 - **Network:** Polygon Mumbai Testnet
 - [**Polyscan**](https://mumbai.polygonscan.com/address/0x5586e65044a92E9AD93Bf8b383CfA1C6bC1e1Fe6)

### **😶‍🌫 Thoughts:**
I've been able to cover so much theory and technical understanding of blockchains and how they work that it's making the next steps for designing and planning my web3 projects a step closer to reality!

### **🗒️ Side-note**
[**Fleek.xyz coming in strong with Community Hosting for Non-Fungible Apps (NFA)**](https://blog.fleek.co/posts/nfa-community-hosting)

***

[⏮️](014.md) - [⏭️](016.md)
