log/025.md, before:

# 👨‍💻 100 Days Of Code - 🪵 Log

## 🗓️ Day 25: February 02, 2023

### **🥵 Today's Progress**

#### **JavaScript Basics**

Yes, I am thoroughly invested in exploring this down to a level so that I understand more about how the actual programming language works.

Why, after almost 30 days am I circling back to 101 type materials!? Well it was a lot and I stretched myself thin - this was necessary though.

It helped me learn exactly where my passions are and what I want to achieve. Then I can set goals with strategies to achieve them.

I've developed an appreciation for the fundamentals and it's been brought on by two things:

- exposure to [**Web3SecurityDAO**](https://www.web3securitydao.xyz/) and the approach the group is taking to digest technical materials
- a [**JavaScript challenge in the StackUp community working with hex data types!**](https://discord.com/channels/895564164783808523/993540032029798430/1070482433507598486)

#### **Study Adjustments**

My pace has changed, but my ability to absorb and understand the information goes beyond the regular `quick technical description` + `practical exercise;` and now involves taking as much time as needed reading the detailed [**MDNS docs for JavaScript**](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript) when needed at each step, for each lesson.

The learning rate feels exponential at this point cause I slowly read through things, then quickly take on the lesson challenges with greater ease. I actually **UNDERSTAND** what's going on more than what's taught on the surface.

It requires effort to dig though cause I have questions, but must seek out the answer by knowing half of it already - which can be a challenge sometimes.

They are providing valuable insight and learning so many new things that I better start taking excellent notes and even implement flashcards ([**anki**](https://apps.ankiweb.net/) *for example*) to help re-inforce these lessons.

The method I'm approaching is:

- read lesson material
  - take notes (or make flashcards)
- read lesson challenege
  - review notes or flashcards
  - take lesson challenge
    - *challenge taking is going so much smoother*

I'm doing this when going through either the JavaScript track at:

- [**Alchemy University**](https://university.alchemy.com/js)
- [**Exercism**](https://exercism.org/tracks/javascript)
- [**LearnJavaScript.Online**](https://learnjavascript.online/)
- [**CodingGame**](https://www.codingame.com/start)
  - [**Escape Game - Multiplayer**](https://escape.codingame.com/)
- [**CodeWars**](https://www.codewars.com/)

#### **Handling Decimal, Hexadecimal and Octal Types in JavaScript**

By doing this I discovered something about the JavaScript `toString()` method!

It takes an input called a [**radix**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Radix#In_numeral_systems) so I was curious about that and learned that it's a great way to convert numbers into different native types:

- Base **2** (binary): uses only two digits, 0 and 1
- Base **8** (octal): uses eight digits, 0 to 7
- Base **10** (decimal): uses ten digits, 0 to 9 (**this is usually the default**)
- Base **16** (hexadecimal): uses sixteen digits, 0 to 9 and A to F

Which lets you do things like this:

```js
let decimal = 10;
let binary = decimal.toString(2);  // "1010"
let octal = decimal.toString(8);  // "12"
let hexadecimal = decimal.toString(16);  // "a"
```

Then there is also [**parseInt() to convert radix types when they are in non-decimal format.**](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/parseInt#description) eg:

- **Binary**
- **Octal**
- or **Hexadecimal**.

```js
const hex = "CAFEBABE";
const bin = parseInt(hex, 16).toString(2); // "11001010111111101011101010111110"
```

> Note that `parseInt()` or `parseFloat()` for that matter **does** recognize hex string values (*beginning with `0x...`*) but **not** handle octal values (*beginning with `0b...`*  
*<https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/parseInt#description>*

So how do we handle those that start with **"0x"** (*hex*) and **"0b"** (*octal*)... and not-so-surprising there is a [**JavaScript method `BigInt` just for that:**](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt/BigInt)

```js
BigInt("123"); // 123n
BigInt("0b10101"); // 4161n, which is 10101 in binary
BigInt("0o123"); // 83n, which is 123 in octal
BigInt("0x123"); // 291n, which is 123 in hexadecimal
BigInt("  123  "); // 123n, leading and trailing whitespaces are allowed
```

#### **Conclusion**

You put all that together with both:

- [**basic understanding of ERC20 address formats**](https://jeancvllr.medium.com/solidity-tutorial-all-about-addresses-ffcdf7efc4e7)
- [**how bytes are handled in solidity**](https://jeancvllr.medium.com/solidity-tutorial-all-about-bytes-9d88fdb22676)

You're off to a great start in fundamentals and seeing how this knowledge is applied in real-world use cases in the web3 world.

Heck, I'm even going to go through the [**JavaScript Complete Beginners Section - Getting Started With The Web**](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Getting_started_with_the_web) because there is lots in there about the basic structure of a webpage.

I'm going to appreciate it going into all those awesome **React/Next.js** tutorials now and having fun as I unleash my creativity at various steps with relative ease.

So trust me! Take time to do things that would normally be boring to you - **read** or some other format that fits you. Once you start to digest the very basic of things it all starts to fall into place.

Now the possibilities seem endless.

### **😶‍🌫 Thoughts:**

Maybe I can design a way to [**generate vanity addresses now like I seen someone does for Cosmos!**](https://github.com/hukkin/cosmosvanity) Just from learning some fundamentals it's fun to think about ideas because they can be visualized from the ground up on what's possible and the limitations of the language you want to use.

***

[⏮️](024.md) - [⏭️](026.md)

Commit message:

025.md: added parseInt() explanation and updated header to include Binary

log/025.md, after:

# 👨‍💻 100 Days Of Code - 🪵 Log

## 🗓️ Day 25: February 02, 2023

### **🥵 Today's Progress**

#### **JavaScript Basics**

Yes, I am thoroughly invested in exploring this down to a level so that I understand more about how the actual programming language works.

Why, after almost 30 days am I circling back to 101 type materials!? Well it was a lot and I stretched myself thin - this was necessary though.

It helped me learn exactly where my passions are and what I want to achieve. Then I can set goals with strategies to achieve them.

I've developed an appreciation for the fundamentals and it's been brought on by two things:

- exposure to [**Web3SecurityDAO**](https://www.web3securitydao.xyz/) and the approach the group is taking to digest technical materials
- a [**JavaScript challenge in the StackUp community working with hex data types!**](https://discord.com/channels/895564164783808523/993540032029798430/1070482433507598486)

#### **Study Adjustments**

My pace has changed, but my ability to absorb and understand the information goes beyond the regular `quick technical description` + `practical exercise;` and now involves taking as much time as needed reading the detailed [**MDNS docs for JavaScript**](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript) when needed at each step, for each lesson.

The learning rate feels exponential at this point cause I slowly read through things, then quickly take on the lesson challenges with greater ease. I actually **UNDERSTAND** what's going on more than what's taught on the surface.

It requires effort to dig though cause I have questions, but must seek out the answer by knowing half of it already - which can be a challenge sometimes.

They are providing valuable insight and learning so many new things that I better start taking excellent notes and even implement flashcards ([**anki**](https://apps.ankiweb.net/) *for example*) to help re-inforce these lessons.

The method I'm approaching is:

- read lesson material
  - take notes (or make flashcards)
- read lesson challenege
  - review notes or flashcards
  - take lesson challenge
    - *challenge taking is going so much smoother*

I'm doing this when going through either the JavaScript track at:

- [**Alchemy University**](https://university.alchemy.com/js)
- [**Exercism**](https://exercism.org/tracks/javascript)
- [**LearnJavaScript.Online**](https://learnjavascript.online/)
- [**CodingGame**](https://www.codingame.com/start)
  - [**Escape Game - Multiplayer**](https://escape.codingame.com/)
- [**CodeWars**](https://www.codewars.com/)

#### **Decimal, Binary, Hexadecimal and Octal Types in JavaScript**

By doing this I discovered something about the JavaScript `toString()` method!

It takes an input called a [**radix**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Radix#In_numeral_systems) so I was curious about that and learned that it's a great way to convert numbers into different native types:

- Base **2** (binary): uses only two digits, 0 and 1
- Base **8** (octal): uses eight digits, 0 to 7
- Base **10** (decimal): uses ten digits, 0 to 9 (**this is usually the default**)
- Base **16** (hexadecimal): uses sixteen digits, 0 to 9 and A to F

Which lets you do things like this:

```js
let decimal = 10;
let binary = decimal.toString(2);  // "1010"
let octal = decimal.toString(8);  // "12"
let hexadecimal = decimal.toString(16);  // "a"
```

Then there is also [**parseInt() to convert radix types when they are in non-decimal format:**](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/parseInt#description)

- **Binary**
- **Octal**
- or **Hexadecimal**.

It converts a `string` (*first @param*) to the specified `radix` (*second @param*) and `returns` an **`integer`**. 

Simple. Then can use methods like `.toString()` on that integer to convert to desired output! 

```js
const hex = "CAFEBABE";
const bin = parseInt(hex, 16).toString(2); // "11001010111111101011101010111110"
```

> Note that `parseInt()` or `parseFloat()` for that matter **does** recognize hex string values (*beginning with `0x...`*) but **not** handle octal values (*beginning with `0b...`*  
*<https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/parseInt#description>*

So how do we handle those that start with **"0x"** (*hex*) and **"0b"** (*octal*)... and not-so-surprising there is a [**JavaScript method `BigInt` just for that:**](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt/BigInt)

```js
BigInt("123"); // 123n
BigInt("0b10101"); // 4161n, which is 10101 in binary
BigInt("0o123"); // 83n, which is 123 in octal
BigInt("0x123"); // 291n, which is 123 in hexadecimal
BigInt("  123  "); // 123n, leading and trailing whitespaces are allowed
```

#### **Conclusion**

You put all that together with both:

- [**basic understanding of ERC20 address formats**](https://jeancvllr.medium.com/solidity-tutorial-all-about-addresses-ffcdf7efc4e7)
- [**how bytes are handled in solidity**](https://jeancvllr.medium.com/solidity-tutorial-all-about-bytes-9d88fdb22676)

You're off to a great start in fundamentals and seeing how this knowledge is applied in real-world use cases in the web3 world.

Heck, I'm even going to go through the [**JavaScript Complete Beginners Section - Getting Started With The Web**](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Getting_started_with_the_web) because there is lots in there about the basic structure of a webpage.

I'm going to appreciate it going into all those awesome **React/Next.js** tutorials now and having fun as I unleash my creativity at various steps with relative ease.

So trust me! Take time to do things that would normally be boring to you - **read** or some other format that fits you. Once you start to digest the very basic of things it all starts to fall into place.

Now the possibilities seem endless.

### **😶‍🌫 Thoughts:**

Maybe I can design a way to [**generate vanity addresses now like I seen someone does for Cosmos!**](https://github.com/hukkin/cosmosvanity) Just from learning some fundamentals it's fun to think about ideas because they can be visualized from the ground up on what's possible and the limitations of the language you want to use.

***

[⏮️](024.md) - [⏭️](026.md)
